Academics
Research
The gradual ramp-up of in-person research is continuing.
Global: For fall 2020, "Go Local" is a "go", Study Away is a "no" (mostly)
Owing to ongoing international travel restrictions and related health complexities, the University has notified students enrolled in Study Away for fall 2020 that it is limiting participation to students who do not require issuance of a student visa or who are already present in the host country or region where they were intending to study. 

In concert with that decision, we are planning to proceed with our "Go Local" option, which will permit students who cannot travel to their intended NYU destination to instead be enrolled in a campus or site to which they can get. Approximately 4,000 students have expressed interest in "Go Local," and we will be working between now and July 1 to finalize student assignments to particular campuses and sites and throughout the summer to modify curricula at the Global sites for what will be a very different group of students than originally expected.
Health and Community
New York State Guidelines
Over the weekend, the State released its guidelines for higher educational institutions to reopen. We are reviewing our own ongoing planning work to ensure it is in alignment.  
New York City Enters "Phase 2"
On Monday, New York City entered Phase 2 of the State's four-phase reopening plan, easing restrictions on a number of sectors. For NYU, however, operations will continue to carry on as they have for the last few weeks, other than the continued gradual ramp-up of research activity.  

During this period when many NYU facilities remain closed, some faculty and administrators may nevertheless need to gain access to their office to prepare for fall classes or students' return to campus. While we are not planning on wide reopening of NYU buildings over the summer, those who need to gain access to their office from time-to-time should contact their dean's office who will in turn make arrangements with Public Safety for limited visits over the course of the summer.
The College of Dentistry Resumes Providing Urgent Care
The College of Dentistry's clinics, which provide lower-cost dental care to thousands of New Yorkers per year, have been closed due to COVID-19. The College is now beginning to resume providing urgent care services.
Student Life
Undergraduate Move-In
Typically Move-In Day for first-year undergraduate students is a single day. For fall 2020, Move-In Day will be extended over several days, and students will be given specific times and dates to move into their residence halls. More information will be forthcoming later in the summer.

Administration and Operations

Continued Teleworking
Although you may be seeing loosening of restrictions as New York City progresses through phases of reopening, we want to remind you that over the summer, all employees should continue to telework, other than those designated essential and those designated to be involved in early restart activities. 
We continue working with schools and units on staffing plans for the fall.  Generally speaking, our aim for the fall semester is to have on campus only the minimum number of employees necessary to support our academic and administrative operations in person, and to continue to have employees telecommute where possible.
Administrators and Staff—Looking Ahead
We communicated with administrators and staff this week, giving the broad outlines of the return to work in the fall.
Health and Safety

KEEP each other SAFE—Safety Protocols You Should Know
With the start of some early return activity among researchers, NYU has begun putting in place some of the multi-layered safety and health protocols that will be used more widely in the fall.

Our approach to COVID-19 prevention and response emphasizes both individual and collective responsibility. To keep NYU—and NYC—safer and healthier, each of us is individually responsible for our community's well-being.  

New York Forward - New York City In Phase 1
As of today, June 8, New York City is in Phase 1 of the State's reopening plan, called New York Forward.

What does that mean for NYU academic and administrative operations?  
The Research Enterprise
The gradual ramp-up of research activity begins today (for health- and defense-related research), with attendant new safety protocols in the 16 facilities where the increased research activity is occurring. These safety protocols will be features of NYU's later, broader reopening:
A required Daily COVID-19 Symptom Check to determine whether members of the community can proceed
Required face coverings in NYU buildings
Required social distancing
Activities for the Rest of the University Will Be Largely Unchanged
As before, summer courses will be held remotely; administrative personnel should expect to work remotely for most of the summer, at least until some are required for the return of students and other in-person campus activity; essential employees are to continue to report to work.
Looking Ahead
Accommodations Relating to the Resumption of In-Person Activity in the Fall
In planning for the resumption of in-person activity for the fall, schools and units have begun the process of determining who will be working in person and who will be working remotely. 
Guidance from the State about Higher Education
Specific guidance for institutions of higher learning is expected from New York State in the near future, perhaps as early as this week. The University will follow with more detailed planning for the fall later in June.

During this last week of the Spring 2020 semester — perhaps NYU’s most unusual — we would like to express our thanks for your dedication, our admiration for your perseverance, and — to our graduating students — our congratulations and best wishes.  

Academics
Provost Email to Undergraduate Students about 2020-2021
In a letter to undergraduates, NYU provided a preliminary picture of Academic Year 2020-21. Of particular note: that we are planning to reconvene at NYU’s campuses and sites in New York City, the US, and abroad; that the safety of the entire NYU community will be the basis for our decision-making; and that we will offer expanded flexibility for students, permitting them: 1) to take their year’s classes over two semesters or three; 2) to take courses remotely or in-person; and 3) to takes courses at alternative NYU global campuses and sites based in countries in which they hold citizenship or residency rights, if they cannot get to their regular, intended campus for the semester (an option we call “Go Local”).

Information for graduate and professional students will be provided by their schools within the next few weeks.

Provost Email to Faculty
Provost Katherine Fleming wrote to faculty to reaffirm NYU’s commitment to protecting the health of the community, to scholarly excellence, and to making use of faculty expertise and guidance in reopening and structuring Academic Year 2020-21. 

Research
With the extension of New York State’s “On PAUSE” order for the NYC region (see below), Vice Provost for Research Stacie Bloom has provided an updated timetable for the plans to open NYU laboratories and research facilities.

Course Registration for First-Year Undergraduates
Because planning for undergraduate courses is still ongoing (see top item above), first-year student registration has been postponed until July. This will provide us more time to consider the implications of instruction modes (in-person, online, etc.), space, and class scheduling for registration purposes. Returning students, who have already registered for fall courses, will receive updated information on their courses in the coming weeks.

CARES Act Funds
The first half of the federals funds available to NYU under the CARES Act have arrived. As we indicated previously, all the CARES Act funding that comes to NYU will be used for direct aid to students over the spring, summer, and fall. Students should click here to apply for an NYU COVID-19 Emergency Relief Grant. 

Community Health And Planning Efforts
Planning for Protecting the Health of the NYU Community in 2020-2021
NYU is working on the details of health and safety protocols we will have in place for reconvening in New York and at our global campuses and sites in the fall. The well-being of members of our community continues to be the principal basis for our decision-making. Under the leadership of Dr. Carlo Ciotoli, MD, Associate Vice President for Health, NYU is assembling a detailed plan that includes measures for prevention, tracking, and responding to COVID-19 infections. The plan — which will take account of current and forthcoming guidance from multiple health authorities and sources — will be shared later this summer.

For 2020-21, members of the NYU community should anticipate:

Required wearing of masks or face coverings
Social distancing in teaching, research, and administrative settings
Testing, screening, and tracing
A public awareness campaign to reinforce the personal conduct necessary to combat the spread of the coronavirus within the NYU community
May 15 and the “NYS On Pause” Order
New York City was not one of the regions of New York State that met the criteria established by the Governor’s Office for lifting the “On Pause” order and beginning a phased reopening. Accordingly, University faculty, other employees, and students should continue to act in accord with the “On Pause” order. We continue to prepare for when NYC meets the State’s re-opening criteria, with NYU putting into place plans and procedures to help protect the health of students, faculty, administrators, and staff. NYU has been closely involved with efforts by CICU (the organization that represents private colleges and universities in New York State) to advise the Governor’s Office on higher education’s restart in New York State.

Housing
International Students’ Possessions
The Office of Residence Life and Housing Services (ORLHS) is communicating with international students who lived in undergraduate housing during spring 2020 and were unable to take all of their belongings with them prior to checking out, noting delays in international shipping due to COVID-19. Given the delays, ORLHS offered — in addition to the option of shipping the belongings back to the international students’ home addresses — three alternatives: having the possessions shipped to a US address selected by the student; having the possessions sent to a storage facility; and offering an opportunity to have the student or a designee come pick up the possessions during the summer.

Administration and Operations
We are in active planning for the restart of campus operations for the fall semester. We expect that some employees will be returning to work during the summer, in support of the restart of research and in preparation for the fall semester. As discussed above with regard to Community Health and Planning, the health and safety of those returning to work is foremost in our thinking, and we will be able to provide specific guidance to our staff and administrators in the coming weeks. All other University employees (other than those performing essential functions who are required to report to campus or are performing critical functions) should anticipate teleworking through the summer, as indicated in a memo sent last week to employees from NYU’s Vice President for Human Resources, Sabrina Ellis.

In addition, the communication:

Noted that as we move towards fall 2020, we will bring employees back carefully and in line with our health guidelines
Provided information on summer employment of students
Outlined the policy on vacation leave and carryover

We hope that you, your families, loved ones, and friends are well. We know how difficult the challenges of this period are, and hope you are coping. Here are some updates on where things stand and our forward planning.

Academics

New York Summer and Fall Planning
As we have noted previously — most recently in a community-wide communication — summer classes will be held remotely.

For the fall, we are planning to be open and to resume in-person classes in New York City, while preparing for a number of different scenarios, such as supporting those who cannot attend in-person classes; planning for the safety of students, faculty, administrators and staff; and preparing for whatever guidelines or restrictions are in place.

Last month, the University established a formal Restart Steering Group to assess, plan for, and implement the steps necessary to restart in the fall. Areas of focus include Academics, Research, Operations, Student Affairs, and Global. The restart effort will be aided by an interdisciplinary faculty advisory group convened by the Global Institute for Advanced Study that will be providing guidance.

The University will provide more detailed plans about the fall semester based on the work of these groups later this month or in early June.

Potential Role for Global Sites
Among the options the planning group is looking at is an expanded use of NYU’s global campuses and centers to accommodate students who may not be able to travel to their intended location or have other travel or immigration challenges (for example, having Chinese students who may be unable to travel to the US in time for the fall semester instead enroll in classes at NYU Shanghai).

NYU Shanghai Welcomes First Group of Students Back to Campus
Amid a strong set of safety and health measures, NYU Shanghai students and faculty began a phased return to campus on Monday, April 27. Seniors and graduate students have started already; additional students are expected as the campus is opened to juniors, sophomores, and freshmen this week.

Research
In accord with the "NYS on Pause" Executive Order, in-person research has largely been limited to research related to COVID-19. NYU will gradually begin to increase research activity starting June 1, using a phased approach for a safe reopening of research laboratories and complying with all NYC and New York State mandates. This will occur after the current NYS on Pause order ends on May 15, allowing two weeks for preparation. The phase-in plans are being developed by the Office of the Vice Provost for Research in conjunction with schools, deans, and investigators. A more detailed communication on restarting research will come later this week or next week.

 

State Health Guidelines and the Health of the NYU Community

In mid-April, New York State extended its "On Pause" order until May 15. More recent comments by the Governor's Office indicate that reopening in New York State will vary by region and by sector, according to set metrics (and here). NYU is working closely with other NYS colleges and universities to get clear guidance from the State and the City for the education sector in general and residential colleges in particular.

 

CARES Act Funding

The Federal CARES Act funding designated for NYU has yet to be received. If and when NYU takes possession of the funds, the University is committed to using all the money it receives for direct student assistance, including continuing the COVID-19 emergency grant program through the rest of the spring, the summer, and the fall for students with financial need. Through its emergency fund, the University will continue to support those students who may be ineligible for federal funding (at least 1/3 of the $6 million in COVID-19-related emergency aid funded by NYU so far has been provided to international and undocumented students). To apply for COVID-19 emergency aid, please visit the website.

 

Student Housing

Residence Hall Selection
The University's plan to reopen in the fall includes student housing, notwithstanding the uncertainties that exist. To that end, returning students have been asked to indicate the residence halls they prefer. However, the availability of student housing for fall 2020 is subject to change in light of evolving events related to COVID-19. More information will be provided as we receive additional guidance from the State and City. 

Student Belongings
The University has shipped more than 11,000 boxes of belongings that were packed up by students prior to their departure from student housing. The "NYS on Pause" executive order delayed any further packing of student rooms. In response to requests from students, Residential Life & Housing Services sent notices to more than 3,000 residents with permanent addresses in the US who did not pack up their possessions to provide them with the option of arranging to come to residence halls to retrieve their belongings. The University will also communicate with international students about options for their belongings given the COVID-19 international shipping delays.

Use of NYU Residence Halls by Frontline Medical Personnel
As part of NYU’s institutional commitment to help combat COVID-19, NYU has made rooms in residence halls available to medical personnel without cost. As of last week, some 130 front-line medical personnel per night are using rooms in NYU student housing. We are pleased to be able to support their courageous and dedicated efforts.

Summer Housing and Those Students Given Exceptions for the Spring Semester
As we indicated earlier, NYU does not currently anticipate making summer housing available to students in light of COVID-19. The University is in communication with the students living in residence halls who were granted exceptions to ensure that they either have a place to go or are otherwise accommodated once the "NYS on Pause" executive order is lifted. Should opportunities arise during the summer session to house NYU students, we will update in future communications.

 

Operations and Administration

Operations
We are continuing to telework until further notice, with only employees identified as essential or supporting critical operations permitted to have access to our buildings. As noted above, planning is underway for a restart of in-person operations under the oversight of the Restart Steering Committee.

Construction
Work on capital projects will be ramping up carefully to ensure that social distancing and other safety measures are in place on the construction site. Construction will restart on those major projects funded by bonds*; work will remain paused on most other projects, the only exceptions being 1) those few that are substantially complete and for which pausing at this time would be more expensive than completion, and 2) those required for life safety or other critical maintenance. (*Proceeds from bonds sales are required to be used for designated capital projects; they cannot legally be used for any other purpose.)

We hope that as you read this you are safe and well and coping. Every community is susceptible to the reach of COVID-19; the NYU community has been and will surely continue to be touched by the illness for some time. Your well-being is very much in our thoughts. Please remember: if you are a student and you are ill, wherever you are, the dedicated staff of Student Health Center is still there for you, as are the professionals at the Wellness Exchange. And for faculty, staff, and administrators — please check with your primary care physician if you think you have symptoms. If you are anxious or feel you need other wellness support, we encourage you to reach out to Carebridge.

NYU is helping to respond to COVID-19 in many ways. To learn about ideas fostered at NYU that are having an impact on the fight against the coronavirus — from research to innovation to donations — take a look at On the Frontline.

Below are some updates. We will continue to update the NYU community about coronavirus-related developments. We wish you all well.

 

Academics

Summer Sessions - Remotely Held Classes
Both summer sessions — which begin May 26 and July 6 — will be held remotely.

Fall 2020
For fall 2020, our plan is to resume regular, in-person classes on campus. Of course, we are continuing to monitor developments closely.

The Zoom Platform
Recent days have brought reports of privacy and security concerns relating to Zoom, the principal platform that NYU — and many other educational institutions — is using for holding classes remotely. Clay Shirky, Vice Provost for Educational Technologies; Maria Suarez, Chief Information Security Office; and Ben Maddox, Chief Instructional Technology Officer, have posted an update about Zoom's use at NYU that contains resources that may be useful to you.

 

Health Insurance

Student Health Insurance Plan
The Student Health Insurance Plan is waiving all out of pocket expenses for COVID-19 related testing and treatment. Here is the information directly from the WellFleet (our Student Health Insurance Plan carrier) site:

Wellfleet is waiving out-of-pocket costs for all COVID-19 treatment through May 31, 2020. We’ll waive all co-pays, deductibles and co-insurance. Similar to a preventative visit, like your annual physical, you’ll have no out-of-pocket costs for your treatment. This applies to plans underwritten by Wellfleet Insurance carriers.

Employee Health Insurance
Our employee health plans are covering COVID-19 tests at 100% with no employee cost-share. Treatment of COVID-19 is covered and will be paid in accordance with the provisions of the plan in which the employee is enrolled.

 

Refunds and Emergency Aid

Refunds
The University has completed the process of providing housing refunds for students required to vacate NYU residence halls, as well as meal-related refunds. NYU has also reviewed dozens of individual school- and course-based fees for the purpose of determining potential refunds, which are based on whether or not students received all or part of the services, supplies, or equipment associated with the fee. A list of fees that will be either fully or partially refunded can be found here. Students do not need to do anything to receive these refunds; they will be processed automatically. Students should start receiving these refunds April 15.

Emergency Aid and Grants
In an effort to assist students who have financial need caused by COVID-19, in the last three weeks the University has provided approximately $4 million to some 8,500 students in the form of emergency aid and grants.

 

Residence Halls
 
Space for Medical Personnel

Dozens of front-line hospital personnel from NYU Langone Health began making use of rooms the University has made available in the Third Ave. North Residence Hall this past week.

In addition, the University has responded to outreach from New York City by offering to make Alumni Hall available for medical personnel from other hospitals at no rent. The City is evaluating the offer.

Summer Housing
Normally our undergraduate housing system houses a mix of NYU students studying here for summer session and other college's students involved in internships. We have determined that will not make housing available in the undergraduate housing system through the end of June. Once the trajectory of COVID-19's spread in the city becomes clearer, we will have further announcements about post-June summer housing options.

The pace of change due to COVID-19 continues to be swift, and the virus continues to upend so many aspects of University life. Periodic updates on the latest developments are important.

First, however, before getting into that, we want to express our hope that you, your family, your loved ones, and your friends all are safe, healthy, and well. As the numbers of COVID-19 cases steeply increases here in New York, nationally, and globally, we worry about the members of our community, and how they are coping as well with the many restrictions in place to help battle the infection. You are in our thoughts, and we very greatly respect your resiliency and your adherence to those measures that keep us all safe.

Academics

Teaching and Learning
Although COVID-19 means that in-person classes are prohibited, we are committed to the progress of our students' education. We are now holding classes remotely at all our campuses and facilities globally. Overall, it seems to be going well, a testament to our faculty's dedication, flexibility, and ingenuity. Over 99 percent of our classes are proceeding. 

We are also preparing to deliver summer sessions in remote format.

Pass/Fail
We have extended the date by which students may elect to take a course on a pass/fail basis until May 12, and we have encouraged NYU's individual schools to show flexibility about when the pass/fail option may be used by students.

Tenure Clock Extension
The Provost's Office has put in place a one-year extension of the tenure clock for tenure-track faculty not currently under tenure review. There are no delays for regular faculty promotions.

Research
We suspended all non-essential, on-site research at Washington Square; however, grant submissions and awards remain steady, and many researchers have been able to conduct their studies remotely.  While COVID-19 is a hurdle to research, in some ways it is also a spur. We have started a COVID-19 Catalyst Grant effort to prompt new faculty research, and there have been a number of faculty who redirected their efforts to work on the COVID-19 pandemic. Already there have been eight "invention disclosures" (the first step for potentially commercializable products) and two NSF RAPID awards for work that can quickly address COVID-19. 


Refunds
This week NYU began distributing pro-rated refunds to students required to vacate University residence halls and suspend their meal plans. Those refunds are being provided automatically—students do not need to take any steps to receive them. Resident Assistants (RAs) are also receiving pro-rated payments.

The University is also continuing its work of closely examining various fees to determine if they warrant refunds as well. We should have more to say on that in the near future.


Student Residence Halls
The process of students moving out of residence halls in New York City—which just preceded the steep rise in cases in New York and the toughest restrictions—is complete.

The students who remain in our housing are safe and well. We have consolidated them into a small number of residences and provided them each with a room to themselves, which should help check any spread of the coronavirus.

The NYS “On Pause” Executive Order, and its direction that only essential services proceed during this period, had an impact on our ability to return belongings. Accordingly, the belongings of those whose boxes were packed are being shipped, and we are in the process of reaching out to those students when shipping their belongings involves customs or other declarations. The belongings of those that were not previously packed but whose room is not needed have been left locked in the room. The belongings of those that were not previously packed and whose room is needed have been safely moved and stored in locked rooms. If you have questions, please contact housing@nyu.edu.

The City and State reached out to us about the availability of our remaining residence halls to assist with the response to the coming peak of the coronavirus illness here; with so many people doing so much to battle COVID-19, the University feels a responsibility to assist where it can. In that vein, next Monday, April 6, we will start making rooms in one of our residence halls—Third North—available to front-line medical workers from our own medical center, with another—Carlyle—to be made available the following week.

 

Commencement
Sadly, if unsurprisingly, we have postponed this year's All-University Commencement, which was scheduled for May 20, to a date that is still to be determined. Individual school ceremonies are likewise postponed. We did not do this lightly: we know that graduation is a momentous day in the lives of students and their families, as well as a day of pride for the University. We have pledged to find a way to mark our graduates' accomplishments on May 20, albeit virtually, and to have an in-person ceremony that properly recognizes the Class of 2020 and their achievements at the appropriate time.


Budget-related and Administrative Issues

Budget and Hiring
The impact of the coronavirus on the University budget has been profound. Even as we continue to pay our employees and our student workers, NYU must take steps to reduce expenditures both in the current year and in 2020-21. Among these:

Faculty and administrative hiring must be curtailed. Offers that have already been extended will be honored; however, no additional offers should be made, with very few exceptions, and ongoing searches should be suspended.
Other than Personal Services (OTPS) expenses should be reduced except for essential purposes, with particular attention to travel, including conference travel; meals; use of consultants; etc.
School and administrative unit fiscal officers will have greater detail, and this will be a key topic during upcoming budget discussions regularly scheduled for this time of year.

Construction
Last week, the definition of construction projects deemed "essential" under Governor's Executive Order was clarified. We are in the process of safely and properly closing down most of our construction projects—i.e., all those that don't fall into the current definition of an essential construction project—including the 181 Mercer site.


Concluding Thoughts
We have to acknowledge that there is a great deal of uncertainty. Therefore, as we look ahead, we have to prepare for the potentiality that this pandemic will not be resolved as soon as we wish. At this point, we are making preparations across all our campuses and locations both for the possibility of reconvening in person as well as for the prospect of having to carry on with remotely-held classes into the summer. We will continue to communicate about our plans.

In the meantime, even as we conduct classes, research, and the administrative operations of the University remotely, we should bear in mind that there are personnel who are on the front lines every day. Some are our brave and skillful colleagues at NYU Langone offering care to ill New Yorkers. Others are the hundreds of colleagues who continue to come to campus daily to provide the essential services to keep the University running and take care of our community. To all of these people we offer our deep, deep gratitude and respect.

And to all of those stricken by the coronavirus, or who have family members or loved ones or friends stricken by COVID-19, please know that you have our deepest sympathy and concern.

COVID-19 has caused great disruption and heartache, and there is more to come, no doubt. Yet its effects will not last forever. We should not lose sight of the power of hope, nor should we give up on looking forward to that wonderful day when we can be in one another's company again.

Be safe and well. Take good care of yourselves.

 First, we all hope that as we resume classes remotely following the spring break, you are all safe and well.  The coronavirus has put enormous, disruptive burdens on us individually, as members of families and communities, and on institutions such as NYU.  We hope you are coping as well as you can.  Our thoughts are with you.  And we want to offer a particular note of gratitude to those colleagues who provide essential services and are continuing to come to campus each day.

We want to update you on the key developments of the last few days.  Central to these was the Governor's "NYS on Pause" order, which seeks to maximize social distancing by directing 100% of employees to work from home, other than those performing essential functions or having a critical need to be at a workplace.  NYU is committed to embracing this in order to check the spread of COVID-19.


Academic Affairs

Classes
Yesterday we resumed classes remotely following the spring break.  

Resources for this transition have been offered at both the University and school level. For example, last week the University hosted two webinars in which hundreds of faculty participated, and schools have undertaken similar activity. We have redeployed staff in our IT division from a number of offices to supplement the instructional technology office in order to have more people available to support faculty. And we have established resources pages about remote learning -- such as this one -- for faculty, too.

We know this has been an extraordinary effort in a short time-frame. We thank all those involved, and in particular both the faculty and the administrative support that made this effort possible.

The number of NYU participants using the principal platform we have recommended for remotely held classes – Zoom – has increased by a factor of nearly 40 compared to a month ago.

Faculty having difficulty conducting classes because of connectivity difficulties should contact their school's educational technology office, or vp_edtech@nyu.edu.

University Facilities Shut
We are aware that some faculty had hoped to conduct their online classes from their offices, classrooms, or other University facilities.  Due to the Governor's order, faculty will need to conduct their classes from home.  We know this is an additional hardship for you amidst all the other turmoil you are confronting.  Apart from some individuals whom deans designate as having a critical need to enter a University building, the buildings will be closed.

Non-essential In-Person Research at Washington Square Halted
Last Friday, Stacie Bloom, Vice Provost for Research, sent out a communication suspending non-essential research; only critical research -- as designated by the department chair and dean -- will be permitted. We did not do this lightly -- the scholarly enterprise is the heart of the University. However, after considerable -- and agonizing -- deliberation, we determined that this step was in line with the Governor's order, in line with what other universities are doing, and necessary.

Pass/Fail and Course Drop Deadline
In order to relieve some of the pressure that students may be facing as a result of COVID-19 related disruptions, NYU’s schools and colleges are offering students greater flexibility in terms of the number and types of courses that may be taken on a pass/fail basis. In addition, the deadline for requesting the pass/fail option, and for withdrawing from courses, has been extended to Reading Day. Please check with the dean’s office or the academic advising office within your school for details.



Students


Student Housing
The process of undergraduate students moving out of residence halls is largely complete. The University granted the vast majority of the requests for exceptions that it received, with reasons ranging from an inability to return home (ie, there are no flights to a given country) to a requirement that a student would face a mandated period in a state-run quarantine facility, from mental or physical health issues to significant financial concerns.

Meals will be provided to all students remaining in housing, regardless of their meal plan status. Consistent with City directives, breakfast, lunch, and dinner will be grab-and-go.

Our next area of focus will be to consolidate the remaining students in a smaller number of our residence halls. By doing this, we can ensure that each student will have a single room, which should help check the spread of COVID-19. This consolidation also frees up other residence halls to be available to aid New York State's response to COVID-19 if the need arises.

In light of the impact of the State's most recent order restricting non-essential employees and the need to move rapidly in relocating students, we are assessing our approach to students' belongings left behind and will be communicating about it later this week. Other than those rooms where students packed up their belongings carefully, we will probably not be able to ship them home in the near future; this is because we are no longer permitted to ask staff to come to work for non-essential purposes. However, we will safeguard your possessions, either within the room or by boxing them up and storing them securely and/or sending them at a later date.

Students Workers to be Paid through the End of the Semester
All student workers will receive what would have been their full pay for the semester.  They should check with their supervisors about how to proceed.  We strongly urge that students enroll in direct deposit. Our plan is to mail checks to those who do not have direct deposit, but if we do not have a correct, up-to-date mailing address, the checks may be delayed or lost.  Under the current Executive Order, it will not be feasible to pick up checks in person.

Student Health Center
We want to assure you that the Student Health Center is still here for our students. Most medical and mental health services are now offered virtually (through phone or Zoom). Consistent with CDC-recommended measures to minimize the spread of the coronavirus, and to protect students and providers, all medical walk-in and mental health drop-in services are closed. As always, NYU's Wellness Exchange is available 24/7 with phone, chat, and email. To learn more about virtual medical and mental health services, visit nyu.edu/health.

At this point, the Student Health Center is aware of approximately two dozen confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the NYU community; the number includes students, faculty, and administrators, none of whom are in the student housing system, and some of whom are not in the US. In all instances, the proper public health protocols are being followed to reduce contagion in the community.


Admissions

Acceptances from the Regular Decision pool are scheduled to go out next week welcoming the Class of 2024. Details will be forthcoming, but following a record year with more than 85,000 applications for freshman admission, NYU has admitted the most selective class and the most academically talented class in its history. September seems a long way off today; however, NYU expects to start the fall 2020 semester on campus, in-person, and with the normal rhythms of campus life restored.


Concluding Thoughts

Being in separate rooms and separate locations is not in our nature. It is not how we are accustomed to teaching and learning and doing research.

But as separate as we may be, we are all in this together. The adversities and isolation we contend with today will help save the lives of our fellow New Yorkers, including among our own community.

Until we can all be together again in labs and classrooms and libraries and offices, thank you for your dedication, your perseverance, and your graciousness.


